---
layout: post
title: "My upcoming talk at City of Hope"
date:   2022-09-24 
---

Thanks to [**Dr. Russell Rockne**](https://www.cityofhope.org/people/rockne-russell) for inviting me to their Seminars in Mathematical Oncology, I will give a talk at [**City of Hope - Beckman Research Institute**](https://www.cityofhope.org/research/beckman-research-institute/computational-and-quantitative-medicine/mathematical-oncology/mathematical-oncology-seminars) on September 29, to share my recent paper titled 'A common pathway to cancer: oncogenic mutations abolish p53 oscillations'. The talk will be hybrid. Join us in person or on Zoom!

**Abstract**:
The tumor suppressor p53 oscillates in response to DNA double-strand breaks, a behavior that has been suggested to be essential to its anti-cancer function. Nearly all human cancers have genetic alterations in the p53 pathway; a number of these alterations have been shown to be oncogenic by experiment. These alterations include somatic mutations and copy number variations as well as germline polymorphisms. Intriguingly, they exhibit a mixed pattern of interactions in tumors, such as co-occurrence, mutual exclusivity, and paradoxically, mutual antagonism. Using a differential equation model of p53-Mdm2 dynamics, I employ Hopf bifurcation analysis to show that these alterations have a common mode of action, to abolish the oscillatory competence of p53, thereby impairing its tumor suppressive function. In this analysis, diverse genetic alterations, widely associated with human cancers clinically, have a unified mechanistic explanation of their role in oncogenesis. In this talk, I will also discuss the role of physiological oscillations in health and disease broadly.

**Read more**: 
Xiong, L., and Garfinkel, A. (2022). A common pathway to cancer: Oncogenic mutations abolish p53 oscillations. *Progress in Biophysics and Molecular Biology*. DOI: [10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2022.06.002](10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2022.06.002)